# **Adyen Case Study**

## **Overview and Origin**
Adyen is a payment processing company that was founded in 2006. The Dutch company was founded by Pieter van der Does and Arnout Schuijff.  Their idea was to create a payment ecosystem that connects card networks with local payment networks and provides shopper data metrics to merchants.  Their strategy is to primarily target medium and large cap companies.  They have received 266 million dollars between two funding rounding in 2011 and 2014, and went public in July 2018. 

## **Business Activities**
The globalization of the world's markets and the rise of online shopping has allowed every merchant to sell their products internationally.  This, combined with all of the different ways(online, mobile, retail stores) with which customers can purchase items has complicated the payment processing domain.  For example, a merchant must be able to accept multiple different forms of currency to allow international consumers to buy their products.  Adyen provides a platform for merchants to process payments through all of the above channels.  One of their major advantages is that they specifically focus on medium and large cap companies.  This is because Ayden uses a more complicated system for fees.  Most payment processors, like Stripe, use a flat fee that covers the different complexities of payment types.  Adyen uses a system that changes the fee based on the complexity of the payment processing. This system is more difficult for their merchants to understand but is less costly.  This is why Adyen targets larger companies that are able to understand the complexities of the system.  
A major technical advantage for Ayden is that they keep everything in-house.  Things like risk management, security, and their cloud services are all developed at Adyen.  One of their top technologies is their tokenization system.  This system makes payments more secure by replacing sensitive data. This system also allows merchants to securely keep the token for things like subscription services or contactless payments.  This increases the efficiency of payment systems. In December 2020 Microsoft adopted Adyen's tokenization technology. 

## **Landscape**
The landscape of payment processing has changed greatly in the last 5-10 years mainly due to the increasing numbers of different ways to pay.  Major innovations include contactless payments, mobile wallets, crypotocurrencies, and more.  All of these systems have increased the complexity of the payment streams and tested their security.  Adyen's in-house systems have given them an advantage in adapting to these market changes.  Other major companies in this space are PayPal, Stripe, and Worldpay. 

## **Results**
Adyen was started much later than two of its main competitors, PayPal and Worldpay, but has grown rapidly in the last five years. Some metrics for growth are numbers of transaction and transaction volume.  Adyen's transaction volume is growing at double the rate of PayPal. Adyen makes about 1% on every dollar spent, compared to 2-3% for its competitors, because of the differences in how they calculate the fees.  However, for their merchants, their fees are smaller and more transparent, giving them a growth advantage going forward.  With this fee structure and by targeting large cap companies, they have acquired clients such as EBay, Netflix, Spotify, and Microsoft.  

## **Recommendations**
My recommendation for Adyen would be to continue to focus on growth with large cap companies.  Although Adyen works with American companies most of their revenue comes from Europe.  They have major growth potential if they are able to expand efficiently into to United States and Asia.  This is a possibility because their fee structure and transparency is very attractive to large companies.  Another option they have is acquisitions.  They have about 2 billion dollars of cash and could look to acquire companies that will improve their technology.  A potential option for expansion would be to expand into the consumer to consumer(C2C) space.  They could use their tokenization system to make C2C payments more secure and efficient.  However, this space is very competitive and consumers have many options already, so I think it would be better to continue with their current focus on medium and large cap companies.  One way would be to refine their data collection and reporting system.  All large companies want to know who and where their buyers are so they can target marketing.  By improving their data feedback, Adyen would become even more competitive in the mid-large cap payment processing space. 

### **Sources:**
* https://www.adyen.com
* https://blog.thesharmas.org/2020/06/12/adyen-deep-dive/
* https://medium.com/iveyfintechclub/how-adyen-is-disrupting-payment-processing-7e0e261f0ea


